---
layout: page
title: Research
subtitle: An overview
---

For the past 10 years, my research has focused on understanding the molecular and behavioral alterations that occur in neuropsychiatric disorders, namely depression. Depression affects a large percentage of the population (nearly 20%!). Unfortunately, the currently available drugs that treat depression aren't very good. They take a long time to have an effect (weeks) and about 1/3 of people never respond to 'typical' antidepressants (Prozac, Paxil, etc). During the course of my research, I studied a new class of drugs, the so-called 'rapid' antidepressants. These include Ketamine (yes, the one known on the street as Special K) and drugs that alter the activity of a group of receptors called 'metabotropic gluatamate receptors', to name a couple. Specifically, my research investigates how these drugs work and what role protein synthesis (the creation of new protein molecules) plays in the structure and function of neurons in parts of the brain associated with depression. These regions include the prefrontal cortex, an area that controls higher-order executive functions like planning for the future, and the hippocampus, an area deeply involved in memory. Neurons in these areas show atrophy in depression, that is, they become less complex and lose connections to their circuits. It's like asking a computer to function properly after disconnecting some of the internal wires. An atrophied circuit fucntions differently than a highly complex one and it is thought that this is an underlying brain pathology that contributes to depression. Essentially, these rapid antidepressants seem to posess 'special' pharmacological activity that rapidly reverses these lost connections, leading to remission of depressive symptoms, and my research suggests that forming new proteins assists in this rebuilding of neural circuits.

To read more about my research, check the link in the menu above... >Resources>Papers
